


Leading on from Ashleys description on a method of measuring the randomness of a shuffle
I am going to talk about the importance of randomness not only in regards to card shuffling
but also how it affects many aspects of modern life.

Firstly we need to disscuss what we mean by 'randomness'.
For this we are going to assume that 'true randomness' is when there is  o way of knowing what
the outcome of an event is going to be if given infinte logical processing.

However this is not what most people see as 'randomness'.
Humans do not readily believe certain outcomes to be random.
For example in the early days of spotify and other music services their shuffle functions for playing
songs from a playlist was based on true random numbers and as such their shuffling function sometimes
would play the same song multiple times in a row.

This got many complaints as people did not see this as random and did often not want to listen to the same
songs back to back.

These companies ended up changing their shuffling techniques to be psedo-random meaning that it was no
longer possible for multiple plays of the same song.

Playlist shuffling is a good example of the applications of shuffling and randomness in the everyday world.
However their are many other uses for randomness such as to make events in computer games more unique or 
even more prevelently in cryptography and encryption used online for every transmittion of data.

Most encryption algorithms, such as the RSA protocol, are based of off the use of extremely large prime numbers
often 2048 bits in size.
These prime numbers however have to be randomly generated using randomly generated seed numbers.

Computers are incapable of generating 'true random' numbers so there are 2 ways used to overcome this problem.

Many random nubers are generated based of truly random physical events such as measureing the decay of
radioactive elements which has been proven in quantum theory to be a truly random event.

Or computers generate pseudo-random numbers using complicated algorithms which are applied to seed numbers.
Seed numbers are often a binary representation of a combination of factors such as the date, current time and
the last three keys pressed on a keyboard.

There are sufficiently many possible seed numbers due to this method that the probability of a certain seed
number occuring is very close to 0.

This means the pseudo-random nubers are effectivley as close to 'true random' as possible.




